---
title: Repro Web SDK
date: 2018 ~ 2020
company: Repro Inc.
role: Software Engineering Intern → Software Engineer
tags:
  - TypeScript
  - Rollup.js
---

> A JavaScript package that allows web applications to connect to Repro's analytics and marketing platform that was originally built for iOS and Android applications. The platform enables tracking events to be set as well as showing in-app messages when certain criteria are met, all without needing to write any code.

This was my first proper step into web development that extended beyond personal projects. I joined fairly early on in the project and was part of a 3-person team that was responsible for the entire development. It helped me establish a lot of my fundamentals and I often find myself coming back to them especially when I'm mentoring new junior engineers.

Being a 3rd party JavaScript SDK, it meant learning a lot of the ins and outs of the various web browsers (including Internet Explorer). Our code had to be compatible with many different frameworks and most importantly, did not break the host site even if we had bugs in our code. This involved heavy cross-browser testing which I had personally built, setting up all the CI and tool integrations. For this, I even created a NPM package to connect our test runner to our cross-browser host.

Thinking back now, this may have been the best way to start working on the web. I got to learn all the core aspects (JavaScript runtime, cookies, HTTP requests), dive into more complex topics such as security (cross-origin/domain settings) and even work with newer APIs like Web Push Notifications.
