---
title: exaBase Company Search (formerly AnyInc)
date: 2020 ~ 2021
company: ExaWizards Inc.
role: Software Engineer → Software Engineer (Technical Lead & Project Manager)
tags:
  - Next.js
  - Django
  - MySQL
  - Elasticsearch
---

> A vector-based company search engine that allows users to look up companies and also find others similar to them without being limited to traditional text matching.

This was the project that really allowed me to build up my confidence and understand my own worth. I started off new to the company, eager to learn. I had built up some confidence in my previous workplace but wasn't sure how it would translate in a different company. At the beginning, I kept my head down, working on my own tasks but could feel like there were some role issues within the team. I had already established how a team should operate in my head and began to communicate that to my team and manager. Before I knew it, I became the lead of the team. I made some big calls in restructuring the team, put together a development roadmap and was happy that it all worked out.

Frontend being more of my specialty, my first task was to rebuild the frontend, introducing a framework and cleaning up a lot of the state management. From there, I moved towards the core of the search engine. The engine was eventually a mix of both text-based and vector similarity search systems but it took a while to get there. Although the ML engineer on our team was doing a great job at training a model with the data that we scraped, and providing us with the final vector set, we realised that the “correct” results weren't correct if it wasn't what the users were expecting. The difficulty of building a search engine became apparent at that point and we began to tune our results with a bunch of parameters. Before I was asked to work on a different project, we had managed to get to a point where our clients were satisfied with our results.
